Here's the problem. You and three amigos
are buried neck deep in sand in a prison
yard facing a life sentence. The guards
offer you a deal. Guess your hat color
and you all go free. There are two black
hats and two white hats. Three of you
are in a line facing a wall and the
fourth is on the other side of the wall.
Each of you can only see the hats of the
people buried in front of you. A minute
passes in silence and suddenly one of
you shouts out the correct answer and
it's not a guess. You guys all go free.
So, which one of you was it and how did
you know? Pause right now. I think you
guys can figure it out. I'll give you
the right answer in three,
two,
one. It was prisoner B who got the right
call. See, prisoner B realized that if B
and C were wearing the same color, well
then prisoner A should have shouted out
the answer straight away. But because
person A stayed silent, B knew that he
and C must be wearing different colors.
Since B can see that C is wearing white,
he knows that his own hat must be black.
This is one of those strange cases where
[music] silence carries information.
Hackers actually use a similar technique
to steal passwords. If a server rejects
a wrong password in 1 millisecond, but
then they change the first letter on
their next attempt and now it takes 1.2
milliseconds, that suggests that the
first letter was correct. That's because
some servers check each character one by
one, comparing them with the stored
passwords. So, the longer the delay, the
more correct characters. So, hackers
build on this to get each letter of the
password.